"""Write a program that asks the user to enter a password. If the user enters the right password,
the program should tell them they are logged in to the system. Otherwise, the program
should ask them to reenter the password. The user should only get five tries to enter the
password, after which point the program should tell them that they are kicked off of the
system."""


solution:


numberoftries = 0

while numberoftries < 5:
    rightpass ="henry"
    askuserpass=input("Enter Password: ")

    if askuserpass == rightpass:
        print("User Access Granted")
        numberoftries += 1
        break
    else:
        numberoftries += 1
        print("Wrong Password","Number of tries left",5-numberoftries)

Explain:
1.numberoftries = 0: Initializes a variable numberoftries to keep track of the number of attempts the user has made. It starts at 0.
2.while numberoftries < 5:: Begins a while loop that continues as long as the number of tries is less than 5. This means the loop will execute until the user has made 5 attempts.
3.rightpass ="henry": Assigns the string "henry" to the variable rightpass, which represents the correct password that the user needs to input.
4.askuserpass=input("Enter Password: "): Prompts the user to input a password using the input() function. The entered password is stored in the variable askuserpass.
5.if askuserpass == rightpass:: Checks if the password entered by the user (askuserpass) is equal to the correct password (rightpass).

6.print("User Access Granted"): If the user enters the correct password, this line prints "User Access Granted" indicating that the user has successfully logged in.

7.numberoftries += 1: Increments the numberoftries variable by 1, indicating that the user has made one attempt.

8.break: Exits the while loop immediately after the correct password is entered. This prevents the program from continuing to prompt the user for the password once access is granted.
9.else:: If the condition in the if statement (step 5) is not met, this block of code executes.
10.numberoftries += 1: Increments the numberoftries variable by 1, indicating that the user has made one attempt.
11.
print("Wrong Password","Number of tries left",5-numberoftries): Prints a message indicating that the password entered is wrong, along with the number of tries left (which is calculated as 5 minus the current number of tries).


After the while loop finishes, if the user hasn't entered the correct password within 5 attempts, the loop terminates, and the program ends without explicitly notifying the user.











